# Individual Poster Presentation, <http://www.srcd.org/sites/default/files/documents/2017_srcd_call_for_submissions_link.pdf>

## 1. Enter a title for your submission with no more than 130 characters—including spaces and punctuation. Use mixed-case letters and appropriate punctuation in your title.

School-age children perceive fast radial optic flow in noise more accurately than slow linear flow

## 2. Select a primary and secondary review panel.

## 3. Enter a full name, affiliation, and email address for each author of your poster. Please do not enter your author names in all upper-case letters or all lower-case letters. This information establishes a unique identity for each person, ensuring that submitters receive a decision status notification for the submission. Identify the presenter of the submission. Please notify SRCD at programoffice@srcd.org if an author has been entered with more than one email address so that duplicate accounts can be merged.

Rick O. Gilmore, Penn State, rogilmore@psu.edu
Andrea R. Seisler, Penn State, ars17@psu.edu
Michelle A. Shade, Penn State, mas746@psu.edu
Michael J. O'Neill, mjo5227@psu.edu

## 4. If you need to include a “group author” (consortium, program, etc.), entered it in the “Group Authors” field of the submitting process. Do not enter individual authors in your submission in the Group Author field or they will not be seen in the program!

NOTE: Do not include research funding support anywhere in your submission! The appropriate place to acknowledge research funding support is in your presentation should the submission be accepted.

## 5. Enter an abstract with a maximum of 500 words. Your abstract must be typed or copied and pasted into the Submission Website; no file uploads are allowed.

- a. Single-space your abstract.
- b. Do not include the title in the abstract.
- c. Do not include names or other identifying information in your abstract.
- d. Use standard reference citations (last name, year) and do not include a reference list.

Optic flow evokes different cortical activation patterns across the scalp depending on the pattern of flow (radial vs. linear) and speed. These effects are seen both in adults (Fesi et al., 2014) and children (Gilmore et al., 2016). This study examined whether the detection of optic flow in child observers varies by pattern and speed in similar ways to adults (Adamiak et al., 2015), and the extent to which behavioral detection accords with patterns of brain activation.
 
Child observers (n=20; 5.3-8.5 years, 12 female) viewed two side-by-side, time varying (1.2 Hz coherent/incoherent cycle) annular-shaped (18 deg outer/5 deg inner diameter) optic flow displays at a viewing distance of 60 cm. One display depicted random (0% coherent) motion while the other depicted radial or linear motion at one of four fixed coherence levels in one of two coherence level profiles (20, 40, 60, 80%) or (15, 30, 45, 60%). Observers fixated centrally and judged which side contained coherent motion, indicating the choice by pointing to the monitor. The choice was entered by the experimenter by a keypress. Within a single run, speed was either 2 or 8 deg/s. Four runs were collected per participant in a single visit. 

We analyzed proportion correct and response times using generalized linear mixed effects modeling in R. As predicted, proportion correct judgments increased with motion coherence, and the response times of correct judgments declined. Fast optic flow patterns were perceived more reliably than slow, and radial patterns were perceived more reliably than linear ones. Taken together the results suggest that school-age children show abilities to detect radial and linear optic flow patterns in noise that are somewhat less precise than adults, but still have adult-like biases toward faster radial patterns. Combined with other prior EEG results, these data suggest that optic flow processing networks mature rapidly from infancy, but undergo less rapid, subtler change from mid-childhood to adulthood.

## 6. Graphics are encouraged, but are optional; they do not count toward the maximum word count for your abstract. The two graphics allowed may be:
- 2 tables, or
- 2 figures, or
- 1 table plus 1 figure.

File Uploads: All of your graphics must be incorporated into one single file. The document should not contain any author information or it will be disqualified. The file must be in Adobe PDF format. You will upload this document at the end of the submission process.
